---
title: Add a Quest
module: 5
jotted: true
---

# Add a Quest

### Set up the dialog

One of the things that make games more interesting are goals or in this case quests.  Let's think about what kind of quests might make most sense here.

1.  In the **Hierarchy**, select the **NPC GameObject**.

2.  Right-click and select **Create Empty** from the contextual menu. This will create a child GameObject.

3. Right-click the new **GameObject** and select **Rename**. Call this **Quest GameObject**.
This GameObject will help you keep your quest organised. 

4.  In the **Inspector**, click **Add Component**.

5.  Search for and add the **Quest script** component.
 
 In the **Title** field, name your script "<your> Quest".

6.  In the **Desc** field, add a short description of the quest:

 "Fetch something for for the warrior."

Now you can associate specific NPC dialogue with the quest, depending on whether it is in progress or the player has met the criteria for completion. This is a good way to remind players what they need to do, if they are in the middle of a quest.
To add quest-specific Conversation Script Items:

7.  In the **Hierarchy**, make sure that the **Quest GameObject** is selected.

8.  In the **Inspector**, click the **Add Component** button. Search for the **Conversation Script** component and add this to Quest.

9.  In the **Conversation Script**, add one **Conversational Script Item** (following the process you used to set up the initial dialogue):
ID: 1.1.1
Text: Don't forget my dog


10.   Select the **Add Component** button again. In the search bar, type **Conversation Script** and add a second **Conversation Script** component to Quest.

11.  In the second **Conversation Script** component, add another Conversation Script Item:
ID: 1.1.2
Text: Thanks for the dog!

### Create Inventory Item for Quest

Next, create an **Inventory Item** for the quest you have prepared:
1.  In the **Scene** view, right-click the **location** where you want to add the **Inventory Item**. 

2.  In the context menu that appears, select **Gameplay Prefabs** > **Add InventoryItem Here**. An **Inventory Item GameObject** will appear in that location.


3.  In the **Hierarchy**, right-click the new **GameObject** and select **rename**. Call this **GameObject "Golden Item"**. The name of **Inventory Item GameObjects** are very important, as they are used to identify whether quests are completed or not.

4.  In the **Inspector**, find the **Inventory Item** component. This can be used to associate a different number of **Inventory Items** with one GameObject. 

Change the **Count** parameter to 3. Picking up this item will now give the player character **3 Golden Items** in their inventory. 

TIP: If you want to change the quest item in a future quest, you can select a different **Sprite** Asset in the **Sprite** field.

### Add Golden Item

Now that you’ve created the Inventory Item, you need to connect this to the NPC’s quest:
1.  In the **Hierarchy**, select the **Quest GameObject** (child of the NPC GameObject).

2.  In the **Inspector**, click the grey arrow to expand the **Enable on Quest Start** section. 


3.  Set the **Size parameter to 1**; a new field named **Element 0** will appear beneath. 

4.  Drag your **Golden Item GameObject** from the **Hierarchy** to the **Element 0** field. 


The **Golden Item GameObject** will now only appear in your game when the player has activated the quest by selecting the associated NPC dialogue option.

5.  Next, expand the **Required Items** section and set the **Size parameter to 1**. A new section named **Element 0** will appear beneath it. 

6.  Drag the **Golden Item GameObject** from the **Hierarchy** to the **Item field** in the **Element 0 section**. 

7. Set the **Count field to 1**. This is the number of that item required in the player’s inventory to successfully complete the quest.


### Connect Quest Script to Conversation Script

Now that you’ve set up the quest, you can associate it with a branch of NPC dialogue. When the player selects the response which triggers the selected Conversation Script Item, the quest will activate.
In this case, the Golden Apple quest will activate when the player character greets and compliments the NPC:


1.  In the **Hierarchy**, select the **NPC GameObject**.

2.  In the **Inspector**, find the **Conversation Script** component. Open **Conversation Script Item 1.1** ("Why thank you! Please will you get me something?") for editing.

3.  Drag the **Quest GameObject** from the **Hierarchy** to the **Quest (Optional)** field. This will assign the quest to this dialogue choice.

4.  Click **Update**.


5.  Enter **Play Mode** and test your changes. The **Golden Item** quest will be initiated when you select the associated NPC dialogue option.
TIP: Quests should be assigned to NPC conversation branches, rather than the first Conversation Script Item in their conversation tree. This means that you will be able to add multiple quests for the player within one NPC’s conversation tree.

### Add Reward

Your player can now successfully complete a quest from an NPC. But how many will be motivated by quests without rewards?

To add a reward to your quest:

1.  In the **Scene** view, right-click next to the **NPC**. 

2.  In the context menu that appears, select **Gameplay Prefabs** > **Add InventoryItem Here**. An **Inventory Item GameObject** will appear in that location. The default sprite used for inventory items is the Golden Item. Let’s reward your player with something else though — how about a chicken?

3.  In the **Inspector**, find the **Inventory Item** component. Click the **circle** select button to the right of the **Sprite** field and select the **Sprite** named **_Chicken**.

4.  In the **Inspector**, enable the **checkbox** in the header of the **Animator** component. This will animate the chicken.

5.  In the **Hierarchy**, right-click on the reward item **GameObject** and select **Rename**. Call it **Chicken Reward**. 

6.  In the **Hierarchy**, select the **Quest GameObject**. Expand the **Reward Items** section.

7.  Set the **Size parameter to 1**; a new field named **Element 0** will appear beneath. 

8.  Drag your **Chicken Reward** from the **Hierarchy** to the **Element 0** field. 

9.  In the **Hierarchy**, select the **Chicken Reward**. In the **Inspector**, disable the checkbox in the **Chicken Reward** header.

This deactivates the **Chicken Reward**, and will stop the player from collecting it before it has been given as a reward.
10.  Save the **Scene**. 

Now enter Play Mode and test the changes you’ve made to your game!
